# Getting-and-Cleaning-Data
The R script, run_analysis.R, reads in data from the UCI HAR Dataset. It combines the raw data in x_train.txt with the activity labels in Y-train.txt and the subject labels in subject_train.txt to create the dataset, traindata. It combines the raw data in x_test.txt with the activity labels in y_test.txt and the subject labels in subject_test.txt to create the dataset, testdata. Traindata and testdata are merged to create one dataset, alldata, that contains all of the train and test data. The variable names for the raw data contained in features.txt are converted to character data and combined with names for the subject and activity columns to assign column names to alldata.  Alldata is subsetted to create alldata_sub which contains the subject, activity, and only the variables(column names) that contain mean or std in their name. Descriptive names for the activities in activity_labels. txt are used to replace the numbers in the activities columns with the activity name.  The variable names are edited to make them more readable. These characters, ("-", "()"), are removed as they are reserved characters and can interfer with data analysis. Camelcase is used to make the long varaible names more readable. A "." is used before X,Y, and Z to improve readability. Due to the length of the variable names, further description of the variables is available in the codebook. Alldata_sub is grouped by subject and activity using group_by in the dplyr package. The mean for each measurement for each subject and activity is determined using summarise_each in the dplyr package. The dataset, avgdata, is returned and coontains the average of each variable in alldata_sub for each activity and each subject.
